# Personalized_Doctor_Recommendation_System-PDR-

# INTRODUCTION:
The PDR System aims to make smart recommendations for patients seeking medical care that addresses need beyond physical treatment. A suitable match between a doctor and a patient could have significant impact in how well the patient can follow treatment. In addition, matching similar patients to the same doctor could improve accuracy in diagnosis. The main source of the “SMART” recommendations are the ratings by doctors and patients on each other, in addition to rating on the establishments the doctors are based from. The PRD system will look for similarities among patients and make suggestion to other patients based on the success of previous matches. 

Patients would create a profile which would include general information such as name, date of birth, gender etc. The patients could also add any current prescriptions and diagnosis they have. Once the patient has created a profile, the system would generate a list of doctors using SMART recommendation based on the services they are looking for and the information provided on their profile. On the doctor’s end, the PRD system would be used as more of a marketing tool. In addition to the general information, the doctors would include their specialties, special skills, their availability, maximum number of patients and all the establishments they are associated with.


# Main Idea:
The PDR database is built on patient and doctor ratings. Patients can rate doctors after a visit. Additionally, doctors can rate patient’s conduct to reduce bias in the patient’s ratings. The doctor’s ratings are not visible to either doctors or patients. The purpose of the doctor’s ratings is to create an automatic system that eliminates ratings from the patients that has been rated poorly at least three doctors.

The logic to generate the smart recommendations consisted on first identifying all the patients that are like the target patient. The team defined “similar patients” as patients that shared three or more attributes with the target patient. The attributes that the team considered for similar patients are gender, ethnicity, age range, diseases, primary doctors, mediations, preferred language and insurance. Attributes such as diseases, medication, etc. were counted based on the number of diseases they shared with the target patient.

Once all the similar patients were identified, then the team proceeded extract all the doctor rating from the similar patients and all the doctors that where associated with the similar patients. To determine an average rate for all the doctors, the doctors in the patient_has_doctor table where temporarily awarded the max rate of 5. This was rationalized has if a patient has decided to become a doctor’s regular patient, they must have an efficient and successful relationship.
Lastly, after gathering all the doctors, the resulting list was filtered to only show doctors with an average rate by similar patients of 3 or better. This was the list displayed to the target patient. Due to the randomization methods that the team used to populate the join tables in the database, the “SMART Recommendation” results where limited. To adequately test the results, the team manipulated the original records of the database to create more “similar patients, which still resulted in limited records. When considering that a user could get a result of 50 entries or less, the team made the decision to supplement the smart recommendations with doctors that had an overall average rate of 3 or better.
